---
title: "September 30, 2025"
date: 2025-09-30
weight: 1
type: docs
toc: false
hide_feedback: true
description: >
  Monthly sync meeting summary for September 30, 2025
---

# Texera Apache Incubation – Monthly Meeting Minutes

**Date:** September 30, 2025  
**Participants:** 
* **PPMC:** Yicong Huang, Xinyuan Lin, Chris Park, Jiadong Bai, Xiaozhen Liu, Yunyan Ding, Zuozhi Wang
* **Mentors:** Ian Maxon, Gordon K
* **Guests:** Qizhi Tian, Xuan Gu, Madison Lin, Ryan Zhang

---

## 1. Recent Accomplishments

### Core System Enhancements

* **Machine Learning Integration:** Added new ML training operators for both linear and logistic regression.
* **Data Visualization:** A new choropleth map operator has been added for geographical data visualization.
* **Architecture:** The `AccessControlService` has been implemented as a new microservice to improve security and modularity. A diagram of the new cluster architecture is available.
* **User Authentication:** The user activity window has been separated from the JWT expiration to provide more flexible session management.
* **Admin Settings:** Added new configuration guidance in the admin settings for file upload parameters, including file size, concurrent parts, and part size.

### Community and Outreach

* **Official Website:** Work is in progress with mentors to set up the official Apache website at `https://texera.apache.org/`.
* **YouTube Channels:** Two new YouTube channels have been launched to support the community:
    * [Texera Project General](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCtqiNGz3ur_bPhcy70H6y4Q)
    * [Texera Project Tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUWxmOGv5Y8p_ahGIdg-GLA)

---

## 2. September 2025 Active Contributors

This month, we'd like to recognize the following active contributors (excluding Committers and PPMC members):

* Xuan Gu
* Jae Yun Kim
* Andy Zhang
* Victor Fawole

---

## 3. v1.1.0-incubating Release Plan

A major ongoing effort is the upcoming `v1.1.0-incubating` release, which is planned for the next few weeks. The last major release was v1.0.0 on April 7, 2025.

### Release TODO List

* **1. Namespace Preparation**
    * Create `dev` and `release` namespaces on `dist.apache.org`.
    * Create the `apache/texera` repository on Docker Hub.
* **2. Artifacts Preparation**
    * The release will include a source code tarball, a docker-compose tarball, and 9 docker images.
    * Each artifact will be accompanied by a signature and checksum.
* **3. Voting Procedure**
    * The formal voting process will be initiated on the `dev@texera.apache.org` mailing list.
* **4. Wrap-up**
    * Upon a successful vote, artifacts will be moved to the release namespace.
    * Docker images will be built and pushed to Docker Hub.
    * The release will be formally announced to the community.

For any questions regarding the release, please contact **Jiadong Bai**.